Added documentation about the Breadcrumbs widget (#5228)
magento/devdocs: guides/v2.2/javascript-dev-guide/widgets/widget-breadcrumbs.md

---
group: javascript-developer-guide

> subgroup: 3_Widgets

Reviewer: The `subgroup` metadata is no longer required and can be removed.

title: Breadcrumbs widget
contributor_name: Atwix
contributor_link: https://www.atwix.com/
---

> ## Overview

Reviewer: This heading is unnecessary and can be removed.

> The Breadcrumbs [widget](https://glossary.magento.com/widget/) allows building a list of links which should show where you are in relation to other pages in the store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Breadcrumbs [widget](https://glossary.magento.com/widget/) builds a list of links that show users where they are on the site relative to other pages.
```

The Breadcrumbs widget can be used only on the frontend area.

> The widget source file is [`<Magento_Theme_module_dir>/view/frontend/web/js/view/breadcrumbs.js`][]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The widget source file is [`<Magento_Theme_module_dir>/view/frontend/web/js/view/breadcrumbs.js`][].
```

> The Breadcrumbs widget template source file is [`<Magento_Theme_module_dir>/view/frontend/web/templates/breadcrumbs.html`][]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Breadcrumbs widget template source file is [`<Magento_Theme_module_dir>/view/frontend/web/templates/breadcrumbs.html`][].
```

## Initialize the Breadcrumbs widget

For information about how to initialize a widget in a JS component or `.phtml` template, see the [Initialize JavaScript][] topic.

> Generally the Breadcrumbs widget is instantiated like following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to instantiate the Breadcrumbs widget:
```

```javascript
$('#breadcrumbs').breadcrumbs();
```

Where:

> - `#breadcrumbs` is the selector of the block element for which Breadcrumbs is initialized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `#breadcrumbs` is the selector of the block element for which Breadcrumbs are initialized.
```

> Phtml template file examples using script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows a PHTML file using the script:
```

```html
<script>
    require([
            'jquery',
            'breadcrumbs'
        ], function ($) {
            'use strict';
    
            $('#breadcrumbs').breadcrumbs();
        });
</script>
```

## Breadcrumb List

> The Breadcrumb List is used to configure the breadcrumbs list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Breadcrumb List is used to configure the breadcrumbs list and represents a simple array that stores breadcrumb items.
```

> The Breadcrumb List represents a simple array which stores breadcrumbs items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> The Breadcrumb List source file is [`<Magento_Theme_module_dir>/view/frontend/web/js/model/breadcrumb-list.js`][]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Breadcrumb List source file is [`<Magento_Theme_module_dir>/view/frontend/web/js/model/breadcrumb-list.js`][].
```

The Breadcrumb widget uses the Breadcrumbs List to configure a list of breadcrumbs which should be rendered. 

> The Breadcrumb List should be configured before Breadcrumbs widget initialization. After Breadcrumbs widget initialization the Breadcrumb List does not affect the rendered list of breadcrumbs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should configure the Breadcrumb List before initializing the Breadcrumbs widget. After initializing the widget, the Breadcrumb List does not affect the rendered list of breadcrumbs.
```

> Code example of adding a new breadcrumb item to the Breadcrumb List:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to add a new breadcrumb item to the breadcrumb list:
```

```html
<script>
    require([
        'Magento_Theme/js/model/breadcrumb-list'
    ], function (breadcrumbList) {
        'use strict';

        var breadcrumbs = [
            {
                'name': 'some-page-1',
                'link': '/some/path/1',
                'title': 'Link title for page 1',
                'label': 'Some page 1'
            },
            {
                'name': 'some-page-1',
                'link': '/some/path/2',
                'title': 'Link title for page 1',
                'label': 'Some page 2'
            }
        ];

        breadcrumbs.forEach(function (breadcrumb) {
            breadcrumbList.push(breadcrumb);
        });
    });
</script>
```

### Breadcrumb List Item Options

The Breadcrumb List Items should have the following structure:

| Option | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `name` | The class of a breadcrumb item. | String |
| `link` | The URL link of a breadcrumb item. | String |

> | `title` | The title of a breadcrumb item link. | String |

Reviewer 2: Hi @serhiyzhovnir. Thank you for the great article! You've described everything well, but the point with list item title and label might not be obvious. The question that appears, where exactly title|label is being shown? Since `<a>` tag does not have a native `label` property, it's hard to guess what's the difference in title|label.

Thank you

| `label` | The label option of a breadcrumb item is used as the text of `<a>` tag. | String |

The Breadcrumb List Item Options in the [HTML](https://glossary.magento.com/html):

![Breadcrumb List Item Options HTML]({{ site.baseurl }}/common/images/widget/breadcrumb-list-item-html.png)

## Code sample

> The following example shows how to initialize the Breadcrumb widget and pass breadcrumbs items to the [Breadcrumbs list](#breadcrumb_list).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to initialize the Breadcrumb widget and pass breadcrumb items to the [Breadcrumbs list](#breadcrumb_list).
```
